# Protección CSRF

- [Introducción](#csrf-introduction)
- [Exluyendo URIs](#csrf-excluding-uris)
- [X-CSRF-Token](#csrf-x-csrf-token)
- [X-XSRF-Token](#csrf-x-xsrf-token)

<a name="csrf-introduction"></a>

## Introducción

Laravel hace fácil la protección de su aplicación de ataques[ *cross-site request forgery*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-site_request_forgery) (CSRF). Solicitudes de falsificación a través de sitios *Cross-site request forgeries* son un tipo de ataques maliciosos a través de los cuales comandos no autorizados son ejecutados en nombre de un usuario autenticado.

Laravel genera automáticamente una prueba *token* CSRF para cada sesión de usuario activo administrado por la aplicación. Esta prueba se utiliza para verificar que el usuario autenticado es el que realmente hace las peticiones a la aplicación.

Anytime you define a HTML form in your application, you should include a hidden CSRF token field in the form so that the CSRF protection middleware can validate the request. You may use the `csrf_field` helper to generate the token field:

    <form method="POST" action="/profile">
        {{ csrf_field() }}
        ...
    </form>
    

The `VerifyCsrfToken` [middleware](/docs/{{version}}/middleware), which is included in the `web` middleware group, will automatically verify that the token in the request input matches the token stored in the session.

#### CSRF Tokens & JavaScript

When building JavaScript driven applications, it is convenient to have your JavaScript HTTP library automatically attach the CSRF token to every outgoing request. By default, the `resources/assets/js/bootstrap.js` file registers the value of the `csrf-token` meta tag with the Axios HTTP library. If you are not using this library, you will need to manually configure this behavior for your application.

<a name="csrf-excluding-uris"></a>

## Excluir URIs de la protección CSRF

Sometimes you may wish to exclude a set of URIs from CSRF protection. For example, if you are using [Stripe](https://stripe.com) to process payments and are utilizing their webhook system, you will need to exclude your Stripe webhook handler route from CSRF protection since Stripe will not know what CSRF token to send to your routes.

Typically, you should place these kinds of routes outside of the `web` middleware group that the `RouteServiceProvider` applies to all routes in the `routes/web.php` file. However, you may also exclude the routes by adding their URIs to the `$except` property of the `VerifyCsrfToken` middleware:

    <?php
    
    namespace App\Http\Middleware;
    
    use Illuminate\Foundation\Http\Middleware\VerifyCsrfToken as Middleware;
    
    class VerifyCsrfToken extends Middleware
    {
        /**
         * The URIs that should be excluded from CSRF verification.
         *
         * @var array
         */
        protected $except = [
            'stripe/*',
        ];
    }
    

<a name="csrf-x-csrf-token"></a>

## X-CSRF-TOKEN

Además para comprobar la prueba CSRF como parametro POST el *middleware* `VerifyCsrfToken` comprobará también el `X-CSRF-TOKEN` para las cabeceras de las peticiones. You could, for example, store the token in a HTML `meta` tag:

    <meta name="csrf-token" content="{{ csrf_token() }}">
    

Then, once you have created the `meta` tag, you can instruct a library like jQuery to automatically add the token to all request headers. This provides simple, convenient CSRF protection for your AJAX based applications:

    $.ajaxSetup({
        headers: {
            'X-CSRF-TOKEN': $('meta[name="csrf-token"]').attr('content')
        }
    });
    

> {tip} By default, the `resources/assets/js/bootstrap.js` file registers the value of the `csrf-token` meta tag with the Axios HTTP library. If you are not using this library, you will need to manually configure this behavior for your application.

<a name="csrf-x-xsrf-token"></a>

## X-XSRF-TOKEN

Laravel stores the current CSRF token in a `XSRF-TOKEN` cookie that is included with each response generated by the framework. You can use the cookie value to set the `X-XSRF-TOKEN` request header.

This cookie is primarily sent as a convenience since some JavaScript frameworks and libraries, like Angular and Axios, automatically place its value in the `X-XSRF-TOKEN` header.